the great head of washington has sent formosa see what you want to buy them-
land
they are words of war
many misgivings this detail
because we know very well the little lack that makes our friendship
We want to consider the offer because we also know very well
that if we did not
the pale faces take us away in the lands with firearms
but how can you buy or sell the sky
or the heat of the earth
this idea is not strange
nor the freshness of the air
nor the brightness of the water are our
how could they be bought
you have to know
that every piece of this earth
sacred to the people
the green leaf the sandy beach
the fog in the forest
the dawn among the trees
the unemployed insects
they are sacred experiences and memories of my people
the white man's dead forget their land when they begin the journey to
through the stars
our dead instead
world that move away from the earth
although it is normal
we are a part of it
and the scented flower the deer the horse and the eagle
they are our brothers
the steep rocks
the humid meadows the heat of the horse's body
and the man
they all belong to the same family
the crystal clear water that runs through the rivers and streams
it's not just water
it also represents the blood of our ancestors
if it is the sell moss
you will have to remember that they are sacred
and teach it to your children
also the rivers are our brothers
because they liberate us from being
the Tuscans drag
they give us fish
every ghostly reflection in the clear waters of the lakes
account the events and memories of our people
the murmur of water
it is the voice of the father on my part
yes big boss of washington
the rivers are our brothers isacio our being
They are carriers of our canoes
and food of our children
if we defend our land
you will have to remember and teach your children
that the rivers
they are our brothers
and also yours
and therefore
they should treat them with the same sweetness
what is a weapon about
of course we know that the white man does not understand our way of being
so much gives you a piece of land that another
because he does not see her as a sister
but as an enemy
when he has already made it his
he despises her and keeps walking
leave behind the grave of his parents without caring
kidnap the lives of their children
and he does not care either
he does not care about the grave of his ancestors
nor the patrimony of their forgotten children
his mother treats the earth and his brother the firmament
as objects that are bought
are exploited
and they are sold like sheep
as well as colorful beads
his appetite devours the earth leaving behind a desert
I can not understand it
your cities want the eyes of the red-skinned man
Maybe it's because we're savages and we can not understand it
there is not a single quiet place in the cities of the white man
no place where you can hear in the spring the unfolding of the leaves
or the rumor of the waves and the insect
maybe I'm a savage and I do not understand things well
the noise of the city
it is an insult to the ear
and I wonder
what kind of life does a man have that is not able to hear the scream
lonely of a heron
The nocturnal discussion of the frogs around the raft
I am red clean and I can not understand
we
we prefer the soft whisper of the wind on the surface of a pond like this
like the smell of this same wind purified by the rain of half life
perfumed with something more technical
when the last who red has disappeared from this earth
when it is nothing more than a memory its shadow like that of a cloud passing through
a meadow
then it is still river so these forests will be populated by the
spirit of my people
because we love this country as a child
the heartbeat of his mother
If I decided to accept your offer
I will have to put is a condition
that the white man considers the animals of this earth
like brothers
I am and wild and I do not understand another way of life
I have seen thousands of buffaloes being abandoned in the meadows
shot dead by the white man from a moving train
I am and wild
and I understand how a smoking machine can matter more than the
buffalo
we have to kill just to survive
that I could be the man if the animals
if the animals disappeared
man would die in great loneliness
everything that happens to animals
soon
It will also happen to man
all things are linked
You must teach our children
what we have taught ours
that the earth is our mother
everything that happens to the earth
it will happen to the children of the earth
if men spit on the ground
they argue themselves
we are sure of one thing
the earth does not belong to man
it is man who belongs to the earth
everything is linked like the blood that unites a family
man did not weave the web of life
it's just a thread
what he does with the plot
he does it himself
not even the white man whose god I passed there speaks to that of friend to
friend
it is exempt from the common destiny
after all
maybe we are brothers
we'll see
we know one thing that maybe the white man will discover some day
our God
the same virus
you can think that now he belongs to us the same as you wish
our oscar land had
but it's not like that
he is the god of all men
and his compassion
it reaches the red skin and the white man equally
this land has an inestimable value for him
and if it is damaged
it would provoke the wrath of the creator
also white men will become extinct
maybe before the other tribes
the non-woven man a network of life
it's just one of those threads
and is tempting misfortune
if it is to break that network
everything is linked together like the blood of a family
if in his narrow physique
any night
moria and suffocated by your excrement
but you will walk towards destruction
surrounded by glory and splendor by the power of God
that extracted this earth
and that by some special design
cossío dominion over her
and on the red skin
that design is a mystery to us
we do not understand why the buffaloes are exterminated, the
wild horses saturate the secret corners of forests
with the encouragement of so many men
and the landscape gorges
from the lush countable talking hills
where is the thick forest
missing
where will I be latina
He disappeared
that's how life ends
and we only have the resource
to try to survive